Padma’s Melodious Song
A Prayer for the Long Life of the Fourth in the Succession of Lotus-Tongued Jamchen Tai Situ
Incarnations
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om svasti
Oṃ svasti!
rabjam chok chü shying na shyukpa yi
Through invoking the compassion, power and truth
lama tsa sum gyalwa gyatso yi
Of all the gurus and oceanic Three Roots
tukjé tutob denpé tsal chung té
Throughout the infinite realms of the ten directions,
tashi ngotsar metok char du nyil
May a flowery rain of wondrous auspiciousness descend!

karma pa yi tendzin khyuchok ché
Great leader among those who uphold the Karmapas’ teachings,
jamchen ngö nang pema wangchen gyi
The great Maitreya in person, emanation of Pema Wangchen,
dögar tongwa dön yö trulpé ku
Nirmāṇakāya who is meaningful to behold,
nyinjé wangpo shyindu shyabten sol
May you live long like a mighty sun, I pray.

khé tsün zangpö namtar yongdzok né
May your liberating qualities of learning, ethics and kindness fully mature,
ngedön drubpa yong kyi jewor gyur
So that you become the foremost of all adepts of definitive meaning.
do ngak zab dön mawé senggé ché
A great lion among those who explain the profound meaning of sūtra and mantra—
shyabpé kalpa gyatsor tak shyuk sol
May your lotus feet remain steadfast for a hundred aeons, I pray.

chi nang barché dü dé yul lé gyal
May you be victorious in the battle with demonic forces and obstacles, outer and inner,
chimé tsé dang khyen tob rabgyé shing
May your deathless longevity and strength of wisdom bloom,
sishyi getsen wang du duwa dang
May you gain control of the marks of virtue in existence and quiescence,
dön nyi bemé lhün gyi drubpar shok
And may you effortlessly and spontaneously accomplish your own and others’ aims!

Bowing to the command of Sangye Nyenpa Rinpoche, I, Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö, the lowest-ranking
disciple, wrote this prayer and aspiration for longevity on the twenty-third day, the third
‘victory’ of the waning phase of Phālguna. May the guru, victorious buddhas and their
heirs grant their blessings so that it may be fulfilled! Sarva maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. “Byams chen tA’i si tu padma’i ljags ldan sku phreng
bzhi pa’i zhabs brtan padma’i dbyangs snyan/“ in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung
’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 527–528

Version: 1.0-20210607