The Sweet Melody to Accomplish Words of Truth
A Prayer for the Long Life of the Dharma-Expounding Guide Khenchen Khyenrab Chökyi Özer
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om swati
Oṃ svasti.
jamyang lamé jinlab tukjé ter
Treasury of the compassion and blessings of the Mañjughoṣa guru,
nyikdü ten drö gön du pöpa lé
Appearing as a guardian of the teachings and beings in this decadent age—
ngotsar kyé chen gyü mar jönpa yi
May the brilliant light from the wondrous masters of your lineage
tashi nangwé taktu shi gyur chik
Bring about auspiciousness for evermore.

khyen rab dak ching tsangwé adar shar
In the adarśa of your pure and pristine knowledge1
chinang chö tsul bumtrak zuknyen char
Are reflected the myriad modes of Dharma, outer and inner.
kalzang dro la lekpé lam tönpa
You who teach the excellent path to fortunate beings,
jampa chökyi özer shyabten sol
Jampa Chökyi Özer, may your life be long.

do ngak tünmong tünmin tekpa nam
You who fearlessly explain with unfailing accuracy
künkhyen tenpé nyimé shyé sol shyin
The common and uncommon vehicles of sūtra and mantra,
ma dré jishyin ché la nyeng dralwa
According to the tradition of the omniscient sun of the teachings—
da drak nyipa yündu tsoshyé sol
Second Candrakīrti, I pray that you live long.

sakyé jamgön gyüpar chepa yi
Through the power of your understanding of the approach and exegesis
shyé shyung lodrö shé mong tsenpö tü
Of the Mañjunātha gurus of Sakya together with their lineage,
lung rik lo yi yolgor dek zöpa
You carry the tradition of scripture and reasoning in the vessel of your mind—
mawé wangchuk chenpo tsoshyé sol
Great and mighty expositor, I pray that you live long.

chi ru namdak trim kyi gyü dom shing
Outwardly, you are bound by observance of pure ethics;
nang du changchub sem la tukgyü jong
Inwardly, you have mastered bodhicitta in your heart;
sangwa kyedzok drubpé tulshyuk chang
Secretly, your conduct is that of an adept of generation and completion—
sumden dorjé dzinpa tsoshyé sol
Great vajra holder of the threefold vows, I pray that you live long.

chöma jikten sum gyi gyen yin té
Exponent of Dharma, adornment for the threefold world,
jisi newar drowé drönmer gyur
Remain as a beacon of light for all living beings
desi ku la nyelwa mi ngawar
For as long as existence itself endures
do ngak chökyi nga chen drok gyur chik
And sound the great dharma-drum of sūtra and mantra!

This prayer for the longevity of Khyenrab Chökyi Özer, who holds the treasury of Dharma without
sectarian bias in this age of degeneration and is the crown jewel of all learned teachers
upholding the lineage of the Jetsün Sakya in particular, was written by Jamyang Chökyi
Lodrö, who possesses merely the signs of a virtuous practitioner, in response to a request
from the master's own students from Öntö Lhünpo Tsé, who offered auspicious silk scarves
together with silver coins equal in number to the five unending wheels of adornment. Sarvadā
maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020

Source:  'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. gsung 'bum/_'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros/. TBRC W1KG12986.
12 vols. Bir, H.P.: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. Vol. 3: 505–506

Version: 1.1-20210621
↑ Jamyang Khyentse uses the Sanskrit term adarśa which means mirror.