The Flower of Auspiciousness
A Prayer for the Long Life of Khenpo Khyenrab Chökyi Özer, Masterful Expositor of Scripture
and Reasoning
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Namo mañjuśrīye!
khakhyab gyalwa kün gyi yeshe ku
Embodiment of the wisdom of all the buddhas throughout the whole of space,
lama khyen ter jampal dorjé yi
Guru and treasury of perfect knowledge, Mañjuvajra,
chok dü drowé münpa kün sal né
Dispel the darkness that benights the beings every time and place,
lo chok pobpé terchen gyepar dzö
And increase their stores of intelligence and confident eloquence.

lungtok shedrub chö kyi gatsal du
In the Dharma grove of scripture and realization, teaching and practice,
lodrö pemo gyepé nyen chikpu
You are the true friend whose lotus-like intellect has fully bloomed,
lek shé sung rab ma la da dralwa
Peerless in exposition of the well-expressed and perfect teachings,
khewang nyinjé wangpor shyabten sol
Sun-like lord of scholars, I pray that your life remain secure.

kün gé ringluk gyatsö tar khyab ching
You spread the tradition of Kunga even to the far reaches of the ocean,
tenpé gyaltsen sipé tsemor dreng
And hoist the victory-banner of the teachings to the very summit of existence,
chok lé namgyal zangpö dzepa yi
You whose beneficent activity is victorious over all,
jam gön lamé tenpa gyé dzé sol
Continue to spread the teachings of the Jamgön Lama, I pray.

detar solwa tabpé jinlab kyi
Through the blessings of praying in this way,
lamé kutsé yündu tenpa dang
May the guru's life remain stable and endure,
chö kyi trinlé sa sum küntu khyab
May his dharmic activity extend throughout the three worlds,
pendé gatön mi nub dargyé shok
And the celebration of benefit and happiness spread far and wide.

At the urging of the master's own disciples, Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö wrote these words of aspiration.
May virtue abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. gsung 'bum/_'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros/. TBRC W1KG12986.
12 vols. Bir, H.P.: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. Vol. 3: 453

Version: 1.1-20210621